Validation scripts for the ‘Hello, unix’ project
================================================

This repository contains scripts intended to help you measure your
progress in the [Hello, unix] project. Once you have cloned or downloaded
this repository, you can use the scripts to check your work. As you
finish each part of the assignment, you will produce a `.tar.gz` archive,
also known as a tarball. Make sure your working directory is the one that
contains your tarball, and run the appropriate script—you will need to
either put the script in the same directory or specify a path to run it.

  [Hello, Unix]: http://computerscience.chemeketa.edu/assignments/cs205/hello-unix/

Hello (part one)
----------------

The `hello-check.sh` script will check the first part of the assignment,
specifically the following.

* The `hello.tar.gz` archive exists in the working directory and can be
  unpacked.
* The result is one directory named `hello`.
* The directory contains one file named `hello.c`.
* The `hello.c` file contains a C program that, when compiled and run, prints
  ‘Hello, world!’.

Goodbye (part two)
------------------

The `goodbye-check.sh` script will check the second part of the
assignment. It is analogous to the `hello-check.sh` script, except
that where the file names contain `hello` it expects `goodbye` instead,
and the expected message is ‘Goodbye for now.’.

Announce (part three)
---------------------

The `announce-check.sh` script will check the third part of the
assignment, specifically the following.

* The `announce.tar.gz` archive exists in the working directory and can be
  unpacked.
* The result is one directory named `announce`.
* The directory contains four files:
  * `main.c`
  * `announce.c`
  * `announce.h`
  * `Makefile`
* Running `make` inside the `announce` directory builds a program named
  `announce`.
* The `announce` program, when built and run, prints some message—you choose!
* Running `make clean` inside the `announce` directory deletes the `announce`
  program and any other files generated by running `make`.

In addition, there are checks for some important C language style and
conventions.

* There is a function defined in `announce.c` named `announce`, which is used
  in `main.c` to print the message.
* Each of `announce.c` and `main.c` uses `#include` to incorporate the
  `announce.h` header and get the declaration of the `announce` function.
* The `#include` directive is never used to incorporate a `.c` file.
* The `announce.h` header is idempotent, i.e. uses a guard macro so that using
  `#include` on it multiple times is safe.

Interpreting the output
-----------------------

Each checking script prints messages about what it is doing and the
results. Messages that indicate problems end in exclamation marks
(`!`). Some problems prevent the checking script from meaningfully
continuing, while in other cases it might warn you of a problem but
continue with further checks. If all the checks are performed, the script
will end with the following message.

```
Done.
```
